# 3. Management of Workflows

***2016-05-17, Tues.***

## 3.1 Resource Mangement Concepts

The way in which the **work items** are allocated to resources(**people** and/or **machines**) is very important to the **efficiency** and **effectiveness** of the workflow.

**Object:**

* management of resources
* link between a process definition and the resources available
* improve workflows

---

#### 3.1.1 The resource

* **Characteristic:**
  * carry out particular tasks
  * uniquely identifiable and has a certain capacity
  * work on no more than one activity at any given time in this chapter

#### 3.1.2 Resource classification

* **resource classes** : a group of resources

  eg. Counter_Staff, Travel_Agent etc.

  A resource may belong to more than one class

  * **classification forms**: 

    * **that based upon functional properties** - *role*/*function*/*qualification*

      **Ensure** that the resource carrying out the task is sufficiently qualified(and authorized).

      eg. *Counter_Staff*, *Travel_Agent*, *Assessor*, *C_Executive* etc.

    * **that based upon position within the organization** - *organizational unit*

      **Ensure** that a task is carried out at the right place in the organization.

      eg. *Sales_Department*, *Purchasing_Department*, *Team_2* etc.

  * **A resource classification consisits of two parts:**

    * containing the functional structure - the *role model*
    * containing the organizational units - the *organization chart*

#### 3.1.3 Allocating activities to resources

* **Allocation principles:**

  process definition <=allocation=> resource classification

  * specifies which preconditions the resource must meet
  * depend upon the attributes o the case for which the task must be carried out
  * separation of function - to combat abuse
  * case manager - more involved in the case and more familiar

* **workflow engine**

  At the heart of a workflow system

  * allocate work items to resources
  * decide which resource will carry out the activity

---

## 3.2 Resource Management in More Detail

**Entity relationship(ER) diagram**

* A simple data model which summarizes the concepts and their mutual relationships.
* Two types of elements:
  * Entity types - rectangle -> a group of entities
  * Relationship types - diamond


* *static* aspects -> *dynamic* aspects

#### 3.2.1 Allocation principles

* In order to transform work items into activities, two decisions always need to be made:
  * In what order are the work items transformed into activities?
    * *First-In, First-Out(FIFO)*
    * *Last-In, First-Out(LIFO)*
    * *Shortest Processing Time(SPT)*
    * *Shortest Rest-Processing Time(SRPT)*
    * *Earliest Due Date(EDD)*
  * By which resource are the activities carried out?
    * *Let a resource practice its specialty.*
    * *As far as possible, let a resource do similar tasks in successions.*
    * *Strive for the greatest possible flexibility for the near future.*


* So when allocating work items to resources, choices must continually bemade. There are two ways in which this can be done:
  * The workflow engine matches work items and resources.-*push driven*(Using FIFO, LIFO, SPT, SRPT, EDD)
  * The resources themselves match work items and resources.-*pull driven*

---

## 3.3 Improving Workflows

#### 3.3.1 Bottlenecks in the workflow

* Typical symptoms:
  * *Number of cases in process(too) large.*
  * *Completion time(too) long compared with actual processing time.*
  * *Level of service(too) low.*
* Two groups of performance indicators:
  * *External performance indicators(case-oriented).*
  * *Internal performance indicators(resource-oriented).*

#### 3.3.2 Business Process Re-engineering

* Relationship between *business process re-engineering(BRP, 业务流程重组)* and workflow management
  * BPR: to bring about entirely new business processes which enable drastic improvements to costs, quality, and service.
    * characterized by four keywords:
      * fundamental
      * radical
      * dramatic
      * process -> most important
  * workflow management: an essential enabler for BPT efforts.

#### 3.3.3 Guidelines for (re)designing workflows

1. First establish the objective of the process.
2. Ignore the existence of resources when defining a process.
   * process definition is independent of the potential resources
   * list which tasks are required and in what order they should be carried out.
   * then link the tasks to resources.
   * **Four phases:** What->Why->How->Whom
3. As far as possible, make one person responsible for the processing of a case(case manager).
   * acts as a sort of buffer between the complicated process and the client.
4. Check the need for each task.
5. Consider the scope of tasks.
6. Strive for the simplest possible process.
7. Carefully weigh a generic process versus several versions of the same process.
8. Carefully weigh specialization versus generalization.
9. As far possible, try to achieve parallel processing of tasks.
10. Investigate the new opportunities opened up by recent developments in networking and (distributed) databases.
11. Treat geographically scattered resources as if they are centralized.
12. Allow a resource to practice its specialty.
13. As far as possible, allow a resource to perform similar tasks in succession.
14. Try to achieve as much flexibility as possible for the near future.
15. Allow a resource to work as much as possible on the same case.

